docs: update roadmap (#17)
seedcase-project/community: roadmap.qmd

{{< include /includes/_wip.qmd >}}

While the core deliverable of Seedcase is the software product described
in the [Design Docs website](https://design.seedcase-project.org)
documentation, there are several deliverables that form this core
Product.

Because of the evolving nature of developing software, the software
product is never "completed" as it continues to be improved on and
updated. So here we define deliverable for software as the first

> Minimally Viable Product (or prototype). After the first release of a

Author: You're right! oops haha

Minimally Viable Product, the software product will continue to be
tested and refined based on user feedback, identifying bugs, and adding
features.

> Likewise, our non-software projects will also continue to be refined and

Author: ```suggestion
Likewise, our documentation and training/education projects will also continue to be refined and
```

| {{< var status.planned >}} | End 2026               | `seedcase-garden`                                                                         | Tend to projects using data from a Data Resource                                                   |

: Approximate timeline for completion of a Minimally Viable Product
(prototype).

### Documentation

While we want the software products to have a more tangible deliverable
and timeline, we will be continually updating and refining documentation
related. At some regular intervals, we plan on uploading the documents
to an archive for generating DOIs and for greater dissemination.

| Status                     | Timeline     | Deliverable                                                                                 | Description                                                                                                                |
|-----------------|-----------------|------------------|----------------------|

> | {{< var status.wip >}}     | End 2025     | [`seedcase-project/decisions`](https://github.com/seedcase-project/decisions)               | Records on most of the decisions made in the Seedcase Project                                                              |

Author: This text is scrapped from the GitHub repo, so it would need to be changed there.

| {{< var status.wip >}}     | End 2025     | [`seedcase-project/design`](https://github.com/seedcase-project/design)                     | Overall architectural design documentation for Seedcase software.                                                          |
| {{< var status.wip >}}     | End 2026     | [`seedcase-project/team`](https://github.com/seedcase-project/team)                         | Documentation specific to the Seedcase team, like onboarding, common configuration files, and meeting agendas and minutes. |
| {{< var status.wip >}}     | Not relevant | [`seedcase-project/community`](https://github.com/seedcase-project/community)               | Content for community building, outreach, and contributing guidelines for the Seedcase Project                             |

> | {{< var status.wip >}}     | Not relevant | [`seedcase-project/seedcase-project`](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-project) | Main website for the Seedcase Project                                                                                      |

Author: The main website only redirects to those other websites with the documentation.

| {{< var status.planned >}} | TBD          | Usage guides                                                                                | General guides for using and interacting with Seedcase software                                                            |
| {{< var status.planned >}} | TBD          | Opinion paper                                                                               | Workflows and digital infrastructure for building software in a team-based research environment                            |

: List of documentation deliverables with approximate timelines for
uploading to an archive for the first time.

### Training and education

| Status | Timeline | Deliverable | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|-------------|
| {{< var status.planned >}} | TDB | Tutorial | Installing and setting up Seedcase on a server so Data Resources can be created |
| {{< var status.planned >}} | TDB | Tutorial | Using Seedcase to create and manage a Data Resource |

> | {{< var status.planned >}} | TDB | Tutorial | Requesting to start a data project for a Data Resource |

Author: I'd rather not put things that we haven't decided on. This is already too many deliverables honestly 😆

| {{< var status.planned >}}   | End 2025 | [`rostools/cog-flow-intro`](https://github.com/rostools/cog-flow-intro) | :gear: Collaboration with Git and GitHub: A gentle introduction to a team-based collaborative workflow using Git and GitHub. |
| {{< var status.potential >}} | TBD      | Seminar series                                                          | What is research data engineering?                                                                                           |
| {{< var status.potential >}} | TBD      | Workshop                                                                | Data engineering in a research environment                                                                                   |

: List of secondary deliverables with approximate timelines for running
the first workshop or course.
:::

## Ongoing activities

Throughout the entire lifespan of this project, we will be assessing,
reviewing, updating, and adding to these activities:

-   Security
-   General documentation

> -   Refining the User Interface

Author: Hmmm, yea that's true.
